= Roman Nombre Setter

Roman Nombre Setter allows to modify page number (nombre) labels of PDF to Roman.

== Overview

When you combine PDFs to one PDF file by using pdftk, page number label will always be initialized from Arabic style label, page number 1.

Because Most books use Roman style (i, ii, iii, ...) for page numbers of their front matter, this behaviour is unpleasant.

Roman Nombre Setter modifies PDF to set Roman style label for the front matter.

== Install
Roman Nombre Setter is implemented with Java and iText library.

* Java (OpenJDK): http://openjdk.java.net/
* iText Library: http://itextpdf.com/

In Debian GNU/Linux, you can install them by 'apt-get install openjdk-6-jdk libitext-java'.

Compile RomanNmbl.java:

  javac -classpath /usr/share/java/itext.jar RomanNmbl.java

Note: If your compiler can't find com.lowagie.text.*, try to modify import lines of RomanNmbl.java:

  import com.itextpdf.text.DocumentException;
  import com.itextpdf.text.pdf.*;

== Usage
  java -classpath /usr/share/java/itext.jar:. RomanNmbl <input.pdf> <output.pdf> <end-of-front-matter-page-number>

For example,

  java -classpath /usr/share/java/itext.jar:. RomanNmbl A.pdf B.pdf 4

It makes like:

  A.pdf  B.pdf
  -------------
  1      i
  2      ii
  3      iii
  4      iv
  5      1
  6      2
  7      3
  ...

== Copyright
Copyright 2012 Kenshi Muto.

== License

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
  copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
  to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
  the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
  and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
  Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
  
  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
  
  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
  SOFTWARE IN THE PUBLIC INTEREST, INC. BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
  OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
  ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
  DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

= 日本語の説明 (Note in Japanese)
PDFの「前付」部分のラベルをローマ数字に変更します。

JavaおよびiTextライブラリが必要です。

コンパイル後、次のように実行します。

  java -classpath /usr/share/java/itext.jar:. RomanNmbl 変換元PDF 変換先PDF 前付の総ページ数
